README.md, before:

<img alt="LWASP Icon" src="/icon.png" width="150">

# LWASP

###### The Linux Watchful Adaptive Security Compliance

## About
* LWASP is a service to scoring practice linux images in preparation for cyber security competitions
* Very versatile and open to modification, so that coaches can customize it specifically for their teams if they choose to do so
* Tested on Ubuntu 12.04, 14.04, & 16.04, but should work for all Debian-based linux distributions
* Uses Bash and Python for the backend, GTK+3 & Javascript with ReactJS and JQuery for the front end

## Installation & Setup
### Automatic
1. Run this command on the virtual machine that you want to set up: `wget -O - https://encompassx.com/lwasp/download_script.sh | bash`
2. Check what you want to score, and then follow the prompts to install LWASP on the image.

### Manual
1. Download `deploy.zip` from the [latest release](https://github.com/steffeydev/lwasp/releases/latest).
2. Unzip the downloaded file.
3. Drag the `deploy` folder onto the desktop of the image that you want to install LWASP on (or otherwise move the folder onto the virtual machine).
4. Open a command prompt (terminal) on the image and run the following commands:
  * `cd ~/Desktop/deploy`
  * `./setup`
5. Check what you want to score, and then follow the prompts to install LWASP on the image.

You can see a step-by-step guide in [the Tutorial](/Tutorial.pdf).

## Steps for Competitor to Take
1. Once the image is started and they log in, they double click the "Set ID" shortcut on the desktop to set their unique ID. You will receive this ID and the image ID you set during initialization in the email (if enabled). This is so that if you have several duplicate images, you can tell them apart.
2. They try to secure the image, gaining points by what was set in the elements file.
3. The scoring report will refresh every time a file is changed and once every minute. If this is not often enough or this does not seem to be working, they can type `sudo refresh` into a terminal to reload the score manually.
4. The instructor should tell them not to view or modify or view anything in the `/etc/lwasp` and `/usr/lwasp` directories, and they shouldn't touch the `/etc/init.d/lwasp` file.  In addition, if they edit the crontab and remove the scheduled task that calls `sudo refresh` every minute, they may have to run `sudo refresh` manually to see scoring updates. The list of what scores on the image is securely encrypted, so even if they go looking for it in these directories, they won't find it.  The worst they could do is simply break the scoring engine, in which case they can't get more points, which should be enough motivation for them to not touch these files and directories.

# Modifying LWASP

If the built in options aren't enough for you, here are some basic steps to extend the service.  You can find a more detailed guide in [the Advanced Users Guide](/Advanced%20Users%20Guide.pdf).

## Add Scoring Categories
1. Add a python file in `deploy-dev/lwasp-install/modules` (`MyModuleName.py`) that contains a `check` function which takes the `extras` as a parameter and returns whether the check was successful (True/False).  You should raise `TypeError` if the array passed in is not long enough for your module to run. You can look at some of the built-in modules for clarification.
2. Run `cd deploy-dev; ./generate_deploy` to move your new module and any other changes to the deploy folder.
2. Add your category in the elements.csv file with the needed extras, and start using it!
with any questions.

## Breakdown of the files
(** indicates a file that you should provide)


###### These are the python files that do all of the grunt work
* **initialize.py** - Sets up the scoring engine to run, and puts everything in motion.
* **analyze.py** - Called every minute from a crontab and every time a file that is scored changes. It parses through what should be scored and determines what score the user of the image has achieved, then writes that back to **recording.json**.
* **modules/** - Each of the files are used by **analyze.py** to complete the scoring checks.
* **restart.py** - Sets up the file watches and does several other tasks that must be run on boot. It is called from **cse.bash**.


###### These are the files that are referenced / used by **initialize.py**
* **cron.bash** - Called in **initialize.py** to setup the cron job that calls **analyze.py**. It is only ever called once.
* **cse.bash** - Moved into /etc/init.d from **initialize.py** and set to run at boot. It simply calls **restart.py** when run.
* ** **elements.csv** - The user-generated comma-separated-value file that contains what should be scored and what should be penalized.


###### These elements in the lwasp folder make up the UI
* **main.js** - The heart of what powers the UI. It is loaded from report.html, which is opened when the user double clicks on it from their desktop.
* **jquery.js** - Used in **main.js** to power the ajax calls that retrieves **recording.json** and **settings.json** in javascript to do some calculations on and display to the user.
* **transform.js** - What powers the use of JSX in main.js. See https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/tooling- integration.html for more information.
* ** **logo.png** - The image that is used on the scoring report and on the desktop images.
* **react.js** - Powers the react code in **main.js**.


###### These store data to be used by the main three python scripts above.
* **recording** - Stores all of the user-imported elements from **elements.csv** but in a more computer friendly format, also adding a field for whether each item is completed.
* **settings.json** - Contains some user-generated settings that were entered during initialization.


## Notes
* You can reach me for contact at [steffeydev@icloud.com](mailto:steffeydev@icloud.com) with any questions, concerns, etc.
* Forensics questions are in the CyberPatriot model; only checks the text after “ANSWER: “ (can support multiple answers.)
* Feel free to read through all of my code, I have tried to comment it as much as needed. If you know any amount of python it should be fairly easy to understand and modify to fit your needs.
* **main.js** is written in javascript using a framework called React, which was created by Facebook in 2013. Feel free to research and learn it, but I have to warn you that just messing with it as plain javascript may not work that well.

Commit message:

minor tweaks, beta notice in readme

README.md, after:

<img alt="LWASP Icon" src="/icon.png" width="150">

# LWASP

###### The Linux Watchful Adaptive Security Compliance

Note: This repository is under rapid development (beta), do not expect everything to be functioning right now.  I'll be rolling out version 1.0 (stable) soon! Stay tuned.

## About
* LWASP is a service to scoring practice linux images in preparation for cyber security competitions
* Very versatile and open to modification, so that coaches can customize it specifically for their teams if they choose to do so
* Tested on Ubuntu 12.04, 14.04, & 16.04, but should work for all Debian-based linux distributions
* Uses Bash and Python for the backend, GTK+3 & Javascript with ReactJS and JQuery for the front end

## Installation & Setup
### Automatic
1. Run this command on the virtual machine that you want to set up: `wget -O - https://encompassx.com/lwasp/download_script.sh | bash`
2. Check what you want to score, and then follow the prompts to install LWASP on the image.

### Manual
1. Download `deploy.zip` from the [latest release](https://github.com/steffeydev/lwasp/releases/latest).
2. Unzip the downloaded file.
3. Drag the `deploy` folder onto the desktop of the image that you want to install LWASP on (or otherwise move the folder onto the virtual machine).
4. Open a command prompt (terminal) on the image and run the following commands:
  * `cd ~/Desktop/deploy`
  * `./setup`
5. Check what you want to score, and then follow the prompts to install LWASP on the image.

You can see a step-by-step guide in [the Tutorial](/Tutorial.pdf).

## Steps for Competitor to Take
1. Once the image is started and they log in, they double click the "Set ID" shortcut on the desktop to set their unique ID. You will receive this ID and the image ID you set during initialization in the email (if enabled). This is so that if you have several duplicate images, you can tell them apart.
2. They try to secure the image, gaining points by what was set in the elements file.
3. The scoring report will refresh every time a file is changed and once every minute. If this is not often enough or this does not seem to be working, they can type `sudo refresh` into a terminal to reload the score manually.
4. The instructor should tell them not to view or modify or view anything in the `/etc/lwasp` and `/usr/lwasp` directories, and they shouldn't touch the `/etc/init.d/lwasp` file.  In addition, if they edit the crontab and remove the scheduled task that calls `sudo refresh` every minute, they may have to run `sudo refresh` manually to see scoring updates. The list of what scores on the image is securely encrypted, so even if they go looking for it in these directories, they won't find it.  The worst they could do is simply break the scoring engine, in which case they can't get more points, which should be enough motivation for them to not touch these files and directories.

# Modifying LWASP

If the built in options aren't enough for you, here are some basic steps to extend the service.  You can find a more detailed guide in [the Advanced Users Guide](/Advanced%20Users%20Guide.pdf).

## Add Scoring Categories
1. Add a python file in `deploy-dev/lwasp-install/modules` (`MyModuleName.py`) that contains a `check` function which takes the `extras` as a parameter and returns whether the check was successful (True/False).  You should raise `TypeError` if the array passed in is not long enough for your module to run. You can look at some of the built-in modules for clarification.
2. Run `cd deploy-dev; ./generate_deploy` to move your new module and any other changes to the deploy folder.
2. Add your category in the elements.csv file with the needed extras, and start using it!
with any questions.

## Breakdown of the files
(** indicates a file that you should provide)


###### These are the python files that do all of the grunt work
* **initialize.py** - Sets up the scoring engine to run, and puts everything in motion.
* **analyze.py** - Called every minute from a crontab and every time a file that is scored changes. It parses through what should be scored and determines what score the user of the image has achieved, then writes that back to **recording.json**.
* **modules/** - Each of the files are used by **analyze.py** to complete the scoring checks.
* **restart.py** - Sets up the file watches and does several other tasks that must be run on boot. It is called from **cse.bash**.


###### These are the files that are referenced / used by **initialize.py**
* **cron.bash** - Called in **initialize.py** to setup the cron job that calls **analyze.py**. It is only ever called once.
* **cse.bash** - Moved into /etc/init.d from **initialize.py** and set to run at boot. It simply calls **restart.py** when run.
* ** **elements.csv** - The user-generated comma-separated-value file that contains what should be scored and what should be penalized.


###### These elements in the lwasp folder make up the UI
* **main.js** - The heart of what powers the UI. It is loaded from report.html, which is opened when the user double clicks on it from their desktop.
* **jquery.js** - Used in **main.js** to power the ajax calls that retrieves **recording.json** and **settings.json** in javascript to do some calculations on and display to the user.
* **transform.js** - What powers the use of JSX in main.js. See https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/tooling- integration.html for more information.
* ** **logo.png** - The image that is used on the scoring report and on the desktop images.
* **react.js** - Powers the react code in **main.js**.


###### These store data to be used by the main three python scripts above.
* **recording** - Stores all of the user-imported elements from **elements.csv** but in a more computer friendly format, also adding a field for whether each item is completed.
* **settings.json** - Contains some user-generated settings that were entered during initialization.


## Notes
* You can reach me for contact at [steffeydev@icloud.com](mailto:steffeydev@icloud.com) with any questions, concerns, etc.
* Forensics questions are in the CyberPatriot model; only checks the text after “ANSWER: “ (can support multiple answers.)
* Feel free to read through all of my code, I have tried to comment it as much as needed. If you know any amount of python it should be fairly easy to understand and modify to fit your needs.
* **main.js** is written in javascript using a framework called React, which was created by Facebook in 2013. Feel free to research and learn it, but I have to warn you that just messing with it as plain javascript may not work that well.
